The President:
This week, Congress reached an
agreement that's going to allow
us to make some progress
in reducing our nation's
budget deficit.
And through this compromise,
both parties are going to have
to work together on a larger
plan to get our nation's
finances in order.
That's important.
We've got to make sure that
Washington lives within its
means, just like families do.
In the long term, the health
of our economy depends on it.
But in the short term, our
urgent mission has to be getting
this economy growing faster
and creating more jobs.
That's what's on people's minds.
That's what matters to
families in this country.
And the fact is, this has been a
tumultuous year for the economy.
We've weathered the Arab
Spring's effect on oil and gas
prices; the Japanese earthquake
and tsunami's effect on supply
chains; the economic
situation in Europe.
And in Washington, there was
a contentious debate over our
nation's budget that nearly
dragged our country into
financial crisis.
So our job right now has to be
doing whatever we can to help
folks find work, to help create
the climate where business can
put up that job listing;
where incomes are rising again
for people.
We've got to rebuild this
economy and the sense of
security that middle-class
families have felt slipping
away for years.
And while deficit reduction
has to be part of our economic
strategy, it's not the
only thing we have to do.
We need Democrats and
Republicans to work together to
help grow this economy.
We've got to put politics
aside to get some things done.
That's what the American
people expect of us.
And there are a number of steps
that Congress can take right
away when they
return in September.
We need to extend tax cuts
for working and middle-class
families so you have more money
in your paychecks next year.
That would help millions of
people to make ends meet.
And that extra money for
expenses means businesses will
have more customers and will be
in a better position to hire.
Yesterday, I proposed a new tax
credit for companies that hire
veterans who are looking
for work after serving
their country.
We've got a lot of honorable and
skilled people returning from
Iraq and Afghanistan, and
companies that could benefit
from their abilities.
Let's put them together.
We need to make sure that
millions of workers who are
still pounding the pavement
looking for jobs are not denied
unemployment benefits to carry
them through hard times.
We've got to cut red tape that
stops too many inventors and
entrepreneurs from quickly
turning new ideas into thriving
businesses, which holds
back our whole economy.
It's time Congress finally
passed a set of trade deals that
would help displaced workers
looking for new jobs and that
would allow our businesses to
sell more products in countries
in Asia and South America --
products stamped with three
words -- Made in America.
And we ought to give more
opportunities to all those
construction workers who lost
their jobs when the housing
boom went bust.
We could put them to work right
now by giving loans to companies
that want to repair our roads
and bridges and airports,
helping to rebuild America.
Those are a few common sense
steps that would help the
economy, and these are ideas
that have been supported by both
Democrats and
Republicans in the past.
So I'm going to keep calling on
both parties in Congress to put
aside their differences and send
these bills to my desk so I can
sign them right away.
After all, both
parties share power.
Both parties share
responsibility for our progress.
Moving our economy and our
country forward is not a
Democratic or a
Republican responsibility.
It is our responsibility
as Americans.
That's the spirit we need
in Washington right now.
That's how we'll get this
economy growing faster and reach
a brighter day.
Thanks for listening,
and have a great weekend.